If you don't want to read why I choose the components - scoll till the end for the parts list.

# Why and constraints

My current setup for deep learning is kinda old and I am not able to use the latest features that the RTX generation offers. Looking at the energy prices in germany/berlin I don't want to have a single gpu drawing 400+ W of power (as that increases the noise level tremendously because of the cooling that needs to happen). We have a 3090 in the office and it blows air like a vacum cleaner (it does not have a blower design...). And at the same time I don't want to be limitted to just 12 GB or less of VRAM. The setup also should not cost more than 4000 Euros. Because I train smaller models quite often as well I could live with a dual-gpu setup which offers the best of both worlds. I could use the second gpu whenever I needed to to have more VRAM. Based on the benchmarks I found the performance-loss would be minimal. 

# GPU/s

> 2 x **RTX 5070 Ti** (ZOTAC GeForce RTX 5070 Ti SOLID OC SFF)

- 16 GB VRAM (32 GB total)
- 896 GB/sec memory bandwidth (and can be overclocked to over 1000 GB/sec - almost identical to 4090)
- <300W Power (can actually be undervolted to ~220W with minimal performance degradation)
- DLSS (for rendering)
- SFF Form Factor and decent noise level (to fit 2 gpus inside my motherboard)

# Mainboard

> ASUS PROART X870E-CREATOR WIFI

To get the most speed out of 5000er series Nvidia GPUS, pcie 5.0 is needed and for a dual gpu setup I want at least 8x 8x pcie speeds for a dual setup (this would be the same speed for both on pcie 4.0 16x). Its quite challenging to find a motherboard that supports this. Many motherboards actually reduce the speed of the pcie 16x when you connect an nvme drive via pcie 5.0 because they share the pcie lanes.
The chosen motherboard includes:

- AM5 Sockel    
- 2x PCIe 5.0 x16 (1x x16, 1x x8) [x16/​x0 oder x8/​x8], 1x PCIe 4.0 x16 (x4)
- 2x M.2/​M-Key (PCIe 5.0 x4) | 1x M.2/​M-Key (PCIe 4.0 x4, 2280/​2260/​2242), 1x M.2/​M-Key (PCIe 4.0 x4, 22110/​2280/​2260/​2242)
- 4x SATA 6Gb/s
- 1x USB 3.2 Header Key-A (20Gb/​s, PD-Out 30W, QC4+, 1x USB-C)
- 10 and 2.5 Gbit networking
- Wi-Fi 7

### CPU

> AMD Ryzen 9 9950X

I was not able to choose a Threadripper based setup as that would already (mainboard + cpu) almost kill my budget - so I settled with the second best consumer AMD CPU with 16 cores (32 threads). For me the extra ~150 Euro for the 9950X3D are not worth it as benchmarks only show a minimal increase in performance.

### CPU Cooler

> ARCTIC Liquid Freezer III Pro 360

I want liquid cooling for the CPU as I've had good experience with that in the past. The chosen cooler seems to perform quite well for <100 Euros and should keep temps decent. 

### RAM

> CRUCIAL Pro DDR5-6400 Kit 2x32GB UDIMM CL40 Overclocking

I could get 64 GB 6400 Mhz DDR5 for around 169 euros. I coulnd't say no :). The motherboard offers to upgrade to 128 GB if I buy a second set of these. I did not care about error correction and according to [sources](https://www.pcmasters.de/testbericht/133713820-crucial-pro-overclocking-ddr5-6400-test-review.html) I would be able to overclock it to 7000 Mhz.  

### Power Supply

> MSI MPG A1250GS PCIE5 1250W ATX 3.1

1000W are not enough for 2 RTX 5070 Tis. I came to the following conclusion for maximum power draw:

- GPUS: 432 * 2 = 864 W ([Ref](https://www.msi.com/blog/best-psu-for-rtx-5070Ti))
- CPU: 200 W ([Ref](https://www.anandtech.com/show/21524/the-amd-ryzen-9-9950x-and-ryzen-9-9900x-review/4))
- Mainboard + RAM: Unknown (estimated 50-100W)
- Drives & Fans ~= 50 W
- Headroom: 100 - 150W

This specific power supply has 2x 16-Pin PCIe 5.1 12V-2x6 which supports 600W for 2 gpus. Plus it has a power excursion of 2937W (*up to 235% of the PSU's rated power for 100μs) which should be enough to cover all the power spikes. 

# Storage

> 1x 2TB PCIE 5.0 (Linux, deep learning + datasets)
> 1x 1TB PCIE 4.0 (Windows, Gaming / Rendering)

For generating datasets and heavy data processing i will use linux on the 2TB drive and an additional 1 TB drive for dual boot with windows for some games and dataset creation. 
Probably that kind of storage won't be enough for the future, fortuantely the mainboard offers many more pcie slots of expansion of storage.

### Case

I will just keep it open for now on my desk. But later will probably add a case or reuse one that I have at home. 

# Parts List

| Component     | Part                                      | Price                 |
| ----          | ----                                      | -----                 |
| GPUS          | 2x ZOTAC GeForce RTX 5070 Ti SOLID OC SFF | 1.718,00 €                |
| Mainboard     | ASUS PROART X870E-CREATOR WIFI            | 461 €     
| RAM           | CRUCIAL Pro DDR5-6400 Kit 2x32GB UDIMM CL40 OC  | 169,19 € |
| CPU           | AMD Ryzen 9 9950X                         | 514 €                              | 
| Power Supply  | MSI MPG A1250GS PCIE5 1250W ATX 3.1       | 235,90 €      | 
| NVME SSD      | WD SN7100 1 TB (PCIe 4.0)                 |  74,90 € |
| NVME SSD      | Lexar NM1090 PRO 2TB (PCIe 5.0)           | 189,99 € |
| CPU cooling   | ARCTIC Liquid Freezer III Pro 360         |  84,59€ | 
| Total         | Build                                     | 3447.57 € |


# Future

I will show more deep learning benchmarks on this PC in the future including multi-gpu training / inference. 


